Tim. do you copy? We found the rift.
We found Billy's rift.
Ah. Tim. is that you?
Tim. do you copy?
I think it's interference from the rift.
What do you think?
Yeah. It must be.
Kei.
You all right?
I actually believed that
Billy abandoned Hiroshi.
But he was just trying to
put our family back together.
Well. that's because that's who he was.
And he also may have
solved our problems for us.
His crazy anthill theory
was right all along.
And he always said that all
these rifts were connected somehow.
Well. now we know.
- Grand Central Station.
- Yeah.
This must be where Titan X
goes back to Axis Mundi.
Yeah.
Oh. no. we got the right rift.
Thank you. Billy.
But we just need to figure
out a way to get her here.
Whoa.
Come on. Kei. let's go. Let's go.
Move. move!
Come on!
Come on. let's go.
And just when you think
it can't get any weirder…
Look out!
- You all right?
- Yeah. yeah.
Did you see that?
They weren't even interested in us.
- It was like we're not even here.
- No.
No. they're running away from something.
Come on. let's go.
Kong and Titan X are expendable
if it means I can save Dad.
I found her.
She's in the containment vault.
Copy that.
What do you mean. you can "save" him?
Is that what Isabel promised you?
That if you'd help her get to Axis Mundi.
you can magically go back in time
and stop Dad from getting killed?
- It wasn't her idea.
- She's using you.
She just wants to go there
to make a profit.
That isn't true.
That's all Apex wants!
This is about what I want.
And if it meant saving Dad.
I thought you'd understand too.
I wish Dad were still alive too.
that I'd done something differently.
But you can't change the past.
Kentaro.
All right!
Just take it easy.
The levels are holding steady.
Good. Don't exceed where Brenda took it.
We need to keep everything stable
until Kong shows up.
With that thing caterwauling out there.
it won't be long now.
Let me out!
Wait.
I don't recognize that sound.
Where is it coming from?
That's the same chopper
they used to snatch that Titan egg with.
That's an old Chinook.
Oh.
That's where that
creature call's coming from.
I don't know what that call is.
but it's likely to attract Kong.
Yeah.
And if the last bearing we got
off of that Titan tracker is correct.
it's heading right towards Titan X.
I'm worried about Cate and Kentaro.
How much farther is this place?
It shouldn't be more
than a couple of klicks.
Why did Monarch abandon it?
Ah. well… …there was. uh.
an incident in the '90s that involved
some Skullcrawlers and their
attraction to the smell of sunscreen.
Monarch have any other
personnel on the island?
At the moment. just us.
Wait.
I have an idea.
Isabel wants us back at base.
- Can't this thing go any faster?
- If there was an actual road.
Do you know how much Kong weighs?
Well. I mean. we don't know exactly. but
it's somewhere between 70 and 90.000 tons.
You know what happens when
you get stepped on by something
that weighs 90.000 tons?
- Geez.
- Whoa. whoa.
Please!
…a giant monkey and it's on a rampage
and you guys are so screwed.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa.
- Hey. hands. hands. hands.
Put it down. put it down. Hands. hands.
Put it on the dashboard. on the dashboard.
- Put it on the dash!
- Hey. don't do anything stupid.
Okay. all right.
You work for Isabel Simmons. right?
I'm just a geology PhD
with a hundred grand in student debt.
Isabel's not paying me
enough to take bullets for her.
What-What do you want?
Well. we're gonna take your ride.
Monarch ground team. come in.
Tim. how do you read? Over.
Ah. I think they're okay.
They're young. and tough and smart.
Most of the time.
Tell you one thing.
there's a lotta you in Cate.
- You two.
- Yeah.
Known each other for two weeks. I look up.
you want to charge down
the beach toward a Titan.
- You're like two peas in a pod.
- Mm-hmm.
I know you're not suicidal.
so I have to ask.
did I miss something important?
Well. after you left
Suzuki-sensei's place.
Cate and I…
Well. Cate connected with Titan X.
Here we go.
"Connected"?
Mm-hmm.
Titan X emits an ultra-long
wavelength vocalization.
and water acts as a conductor.
like whales can
communicate over vast distances.
- Like sonar?
- Mm-hmm.
Picked it up on Outpost 18.
Right. And…
Cate can hear it.
She's sensitive to it in a way that you
and I aren't. and I don't know how or why.
but I was able to make a recording.
using Dr. Suzuki's equipment.
of what it actually sounds like to Cate.
- You recorded it?
- Yes.
You have this recording?
Yes. It's incredible. Lee.
It's the first indication
that the Titans have a language.
that they can communicate.
Imagine what that can mean.
Yeah. I'm literally trying to.
Wait. What did I miss?
What do you mean?
Well. how did you get
that tracker on Titan X?
Okay. When Suzuki and I were trying to
locate Godzilla with his new device.
he inadvertently. kinda created
this. like. quantum telephone.
And it connected me to myself in the past…
when I was in Axis Mundi.
Keiko!
Run! Run now!
So we were there…
at the same time.
And you knew?
You saw me?
I was waiting for you.
Why didn't you come to me?
Why? We could have found
a way out together.
Kei. the only way I knew for sure
that you'd survive
and get back safely
was if I just let things happen
the way they already had.
That wasn't your choice.
It was my choice to make.
It was my life. it was my future.
and you decided it for me.
What would you have done?
You had no right.
You had no right!
All of this time.
You don't know what could have been.
I could have been there for Hiroshi.
I could have had years with him.
He could still be alive.
That's a lot of "couldas."
The neuromuscular response is erratic.
The Titan is resisting it.
I mean. we were expecting that.
It wasn't happy about it last time either.
It didn't have an egg to protect then.
That's true.
You all right?
Is this really necessary?
Kong's ETA. six minutes.
There has to be some other way.
Kentaro. if the animal outside
is more important than your father.
you need to tell me right now.
Okay? Because Kong is about
to be here in five minutes and 26 seconds.
Ah. shit.
Shaw. do you copy?
Dr. Randa?
I just had them.
This island…
Well. if they were headed east.
then they should be right about here.
- Stop. stop. stop!
- Oh!
Wait. wait. Stop.
You look like hell.
Good to see you too. May.
- Where did you guys get these?
- Uh. well.
it was abandoned at gunpoint.
We. uh. stole it from the dipshits
that work for Isabel Simmons.
Simmons? As in Apex.
Cate and Kentaro are with them.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
They set up camp
at a decommissioned Monarch base
at the end of this valley.
But wait. there's more.
They have the Titan.
Well. if you know where
the Titan is. we've got a rift.
Let's go to work.
W-Wait. wait. Whoa. What do you…
You… You found the rift? Is it active?
It seems dormant.
but we think Titan X's presence
might activate it.
Yeah. but how do we get it there?
Cate and I made a recording
of the Titan's song.
If it's lost and confused.
we think it may respond
to the sound of its own kind.
- Its own voice.
- Wait. wait. Whoa. whoa. whoa.
I'm sorry.
You have a recording
of Titans communicating?
Do you have any idea what that means?
- Yes.
- You'd say. because of course
you know what that means.
Gonna need that recording.
Are you sure?
You need to get to your grandkids.
- Good luck.
- You too.
Okay.
Pay attention. class.
ETA. one minute.
Bring the power up.
Slowly.
No! No!
Holy shit.
We're too late.
No. that base is built into the cliffside.
- Cate and Kentaro will be safe.
- What about us?
- We got someone down there.
- What?
Let me see.
Oh. my God.
No. it's Cate.
- I gotta go.
- Where are you going?
No. If we get to that base.
I can shut down the synaptic link.
- I gotta go get Cate.
- No. Dr. Ran...
- Wait. wait. wait. wait.
- What?
Be careful.
Come on. Let's go!
What happens if Kong wins?
Then you know we can't get anything done
on this island if Kong wins.
He's standing between
a mother and her child. so…
I know who I'm betting on.
How much farther can you push it
and stay within the limit?
We're… We're almost at the point
where Brenda overloaded the system
in Santa Soledad.
Almost?
I can give it another 5%.
Do it.
That's what a PhD in geology will get you.
Come on.
What's that?
It's the perimeter sensor.
Let's go!
It's Monarch.
Oh. my God. Oh. my God.
They're gonna think that this was Apex.
They're gonna assume that this was Apex.
and my father. he's not gonna
take the blame for us. okay.
He's gonna throw you and me under the bus.
You don't know him.
We're not gonna go around
the world looking for another rift.
This is it.
This is the place.
Kentaro! No. no!
Fritchman. you secure the base.
Find Kentaro.
We're gonna head up to the command center.
which is on the fourth floor.
- Hi. there.
- Don't move.
- No. wait!
- He'll lock us out!
Hey!
Dude.
I was a backup punter
on my high school football team.
Yeah.
- Going up?
- Yeah.
Come on.
Find Kentaro.
It really hurt.
Cate!
Hey! Hey! Everybody…
…I need you to step away
from the consoles. please!
I need you to shut down the synaptic link
to that Titan immediately.
You want us to step away
from the consoles.
or shut down the link?
I want you to get up. ding-dong.
Move. move.
All right. All right.
Where's Kentaro Randa?
Isabel Simmons?
Easy now.
You're Kentaro Randa?
Yeah. I am.
I need you both to come with me now.
Don't worry. He's from Monarch.
He's here to help us.
I'm so glad you're here.
We thought you would never come.
Don't worry. You're safe…
May. please. You guys.
over this way. please.
Thank you. Move. move. move.
What?
It's happening again. I can't...
- What?
- I can't…
It's locked in a feedback loop.
and it's overloading the system.
Okay. okay. so just turn it off.
Tim. it doesn't work like that.
The Titan's synaptic link
is jammed at max capacity.
- It won't go back down.
- Yeah. I know.
I don't know.
What the hell does that mean?
It was never the code.
They're not trying to control it.
They're trying to enrage it.
We need to unplug the Titan.
Okay. so. uh. how do we unplug a Titan?
Cate!
Cate! Hang on!
Keiko!
Cate!
Hang on! Got you.
- This way!
- Okay.
- Come on! Come on!
- Come on. Let's go!
- Come on!
- Tim!
Move!
Her instincts are stronger
than any computer code I could write.
She's unplugged herself.
She can go home now.
Except she's going the wrong way.
The rift is that way.
Its brain is probably all scrambled.
How are we going
to get it to the rift now?
- Come on!
- Cate!
I gotta go find him.
I have to try.
She better hurry.
That Titan's not gonna wait for us.
Kentaro. don't go!
We already lost Dad.
- I don't wanna lose you too.
- Look.
I know you've tried to fix things.
but now it's my turn.
Dad's gone.
- We saw him die.
- No.
- We saw a version of him die.
- Stop.
- She's putting ideas in your head.
- Cate.
Dad went to Axis Mundi.
When?
The year we thought he disappeared.
After G-Day.
He went into a rift.
Cate. he didn't abandon us.
He was trying to get back to us.
Maybe there's a version of him
still there that I can rescue.
- Why didn't he tell me?
- To protect us.
To keep us safe.
So that we wouldn't follow him.
You can come. you know?
I don't…
It's impossible.
So was saving you…
until we did it.
Kentaro.
We need to go.
Where's Kentaro?
He's not coming.
Shit.
Everybody strap in. Let's go!
We gotta get that Titan home.
All right. We're coming up on it.
Five o'clock.
- Get us in front of her.
- Hang on.
Oh. shit.
There she is.
Is she following us?
No. she's still moving away from the rift.
I'm not surprised.
They jabbed her with
a 50-megawatt cattle prod.
All right. Let's play the tape.
She can't hear us.
Crank it up louder.
- Louder.
- Cranking it to 11.
I think it's working.
She's turning.
Uh. we blew the amps.
- Shit.
- Not ideal.
- We need to get closer.
- Why?
Cate. you can't control it.
Doesn't mean it won't follow her.
All right. I'm moving in.
Cate! She needs to see you.
What the hell is going on back there?
Keep going.
Cate?
Cate!
I'll be okay.
I've got you.
All right. Go.
I'm right here.
That's it.
This way.
Lee. hold steady.
That's what I'm trying to do.
This way.
Lee. take us to the rift.
To the rift.
Roger that.
Hey. hold on. This is… This is it?
It doesn't really look
like it's open for business.
It isn't.
Not yet.
It needs a Titan to activate it.
Well.
we're about to see if Billy was right.
Hey. what's plan B? Run like hell?
Welcome to the family business.
Whoa. whoa.
What the hell is that?
Lee?
What is it. Lee?
Lee.
I can't… I can't… I can't hear you.
What are you saying?
What are you saying? I can't hear you. I…
I-I can't hear him. What are you saying?
Kei. I was saying…
I'm saying goodbye.
I don't know how he'd feel about this.
Dad and Monarch didn't part on best terms.
"In honor of those
who lived by our mission.
Discover and defend."
I think Hiroshi would accept that
as a truthful epitaph.
Hey. Dr. Randa.
You see the one there. top right?
That one's yours.
You were the first.
I was gonna have it taken down
and given to you.
but the powers that be
thought that you returning from the dead.
as it were.
that might raise too many questions.
I wanna show you something.
Can you imagine what would happen
if the world found out about you?
Everyone would be rushing to Axis Mundi.
A time machine. fountain of youth.
We're not the only ones
who know about Axis Mundi.
Yeah. and we've been trying to find
Colonel Shaw. but he's gone dark.
Well. can you blame him?
You locked him away for years.
I wasn't talking about Shaw.
I was talking about my brother
and Isabel Simmons
and their insane plan
to rescue my dead father.
Yeah. I. um…
I assumed that's why you asked
to speak to me.
Or rather demanded to speak to me today.
You're not gonna stick us
in asset management. are you?
Left. Still to your left.
- I'm going backwards…
- Still to your left.
- My left or your left?
- To your left.
- I'm walking backwards.
- Your left. Still to your left.
See? You have to be my eyes.
- I can't see behind me.
- Left.
- My left is not your left…
- Wrong. wrong.
- …if I'm going backwards.
- Wrong.
It's the other side.
Hi. You found us.
What exactly have we found?
Uh…
Monarch 2.0.
More flexible. more nimble.
More plausibly deniable.
That. Back to basics.
Science. Discovery.
Like the founders intended.
This is your way
of throwing us a bone?
You just wanna bury us
out of sight in the basement?
No. no. Not at all.
Ms. Randa. for you.
Doctor. that's for you.
I would like for you two
to run the basement.
I'm sure you know your…
your teammates here.
- Hi.
- Hello.
See. Tim has always talked about
how Monarch is a family business.
And Kentaro. he is your family.
So. I can't think of anyone better
who can tackle
that very delicate assignment.
Well…
who needs sunlight?
We have everything we need.
No. no. no. no. no.
We're a long way from even. A-Wut.
But…
Yeah.
We're good.
Talk to me.
Last night.
two people came by.
A young Japanese man.
American woman.
They were asking about that.
Yeah. well. I seriously hope
you sent them on their way.
That's my business.
You know me.
I never
wanna get into your business
unless I really. really have to.
All right. Uh…
They believe that that is the key
to open a door
to everything that they want.
And they're willing to risk
burning the world down to get it.
Trying to play God.
No man should play God.
Hasn't stopped a lot of them
from trying though. has it?
Lee.
Do you really know
what you're getting yourself into?
Hell no.
So let's go.
Let's do it.
We can't go any further.
A-Wut.
is this thing really as bad
as it's cracked up to be?
There you are.
I'll see you soon.